---
layout: generic
title: 'Turning 23 '
date: 2022-10-12 00:00:00
---
i was petrified of the dark when i was younger.<br>the darkness signifies uncertainties which for me it meant looming dangers. I've never been a fan of sleeping alone in total darkness until merely a year ago. i was the descendant of homo sapiens that had evovled hundreds and thousands of years to be aware of possible dangers in the dark, to discover fire and electricity to illuminate the night.&nbsp;<br>even symbolically and literarily, darkness always represent evil, hazard, bad stuff that could harm us. -darkness symbolizes uncertainties<br>Turning 23 this year feels entirely different. Walking on a unlit path worth a lifetime, i have been short-sighted because university had put up lamps for me to walk this route safely for five years and i was content. I was so sure about my career prospects until.. I'm not. This year, I could already see the unlit path just less than one year away from now, and my handheld flashlight was rusty from not using it since high school. Considering that I was just a baby (17 year old) when I last used it, I am still an entire amateur, newbie to light-shining skills that is supposed to be extremely crucial in deciding my life trajectory. I'd be lying if i say im not afraid, it feels too much for a human who had just lived \_% of her life (average life expectancy xx). There's so many things I have yet known, who is trusting me with this light emitting probe?? realistically, i dont think there's anyone better than myself to be the "wheel stirer" because no one in the world has had the same exprience, thoughts and aspirations as my own, they r not going to help me life my life anyways.&nbsp;<br>Humans have been hard wired to elude uncertainties and I'm not dissimilar but im learning. if turning 23 has taught me one thing, it has to be embracing unknowns, to live as one with the darkness, trusting that i could work it out no matter the situation because im still human\! if my ancestors were able to get by life and build things from nothing without comfortable shelter, sufficient food, and - the internet &nbsp;(which grants us exponentially, brain meltingly immense access to anything we would like to know) how dare i be any less?